Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to start on our first real block type that we're building together.
Let's look at a preview of the finished product and talk about what we should start working on first
in this lesson.
So here on this example post, this is the block type that we're going to start building.
You enter a question and then you can add as many answer rows as you want.
So the question is in this lesson, where should we begin?
And there's no right or wrong answer.
But I think we should start with sort of the overall skeleton of the user interface.
So maybe just a bit of the basic HTML or JSA and maybe just a tiny bit of styling or CSI.
And then in our next lesson, we can write the JavaScript to actually bring it to life so that when
you click on things, something actually happens.
So let me jump over into the tab where you and I are in the same place and let's start moving forward
together.
So jump into your text editor.
We're working in that same folder that we've been working in called Are You Paying Attention Inside
the Sarsae or source folder?
Let's jump into indexed JS right now.
We're interested in the edit function, so whatever the edit function returns, that will be our user
interface.
Now, before we start customizing this, I want to show you a tip to stay organized, and that is,
instead of spelling out our function right here within this code, we can actually create a separate
function below all of this code and then just point towards the function here.
I like to do this because if I can ever avoid having my code indented several layers deep, I usually
try to do that.
So let's do this right after edit call.
And I want you to begin selecting from the start of the F for this function and just select all the
way down after the closing parentheses and the closing curly bracket.
So that's where the function ends right before this comma.
So just cut that into your clipboard for now.
We can leave this blank, will fill this value in in just a moment.
But down at the very bottom now, just paste in your clipboard and let's give this function a name.
Why don't we call it uppercase edit component or you could name it anything.
I just made this up.
But in fact, you do want to name your components with an uppercase letter like this.
OK, but now that we chose this name, whatever you chose, just make sure it starts with a capital
letter.
Let's go use that name up here.
So now edit Colon and you just point towards your function.
So for me it's edit component.
Cool.
So now all of this code isn't indented an extra layer deep at this point.
Let's start actually working on the HTML or that we're returning.
Let's leave this overall wrapper div.
We will absolutely want this, but let's hollow out the inside of it because what I want to show you
is that as we've seen in the previous lesson, yes, we can use any HTML that we want.
So yes, we can spell out the HTML ourselves to create an input field like this.
However, WordPress has a bunch of existing components or elements that we can use.
Now, we don't need to use the WordPress components, but it can go a long way towards making our plugin
look like it's part of WordPress, like it's using the same styling.
So again, I'll keep the overall wrapper div, but let me delete the inputs inside it.
And now we can pretend that there's an HTML element called text control.
And remember, in every element, you either have a closing tag or you should make it a self-closing
tag like this.
Now, you and I know that there is no text's control element in real HTML, but in JSM you can leverage
other components like this.
So WordPress has created sort of a pre-existing recipe for an element or component called text control.
And all we need to do to be able to leverage or use it here like this is just make sure that we import
it up at the top of our file.
So do this with me up at the top, even above this register block line, way up at the top here.
Let's say import for now.
Let's just have an object.
Import curly brackets from string of text at symbol WordPress slash components.
Now, you might think, don't we need to go install this package from NPM?
And normally the answer would be yes.
But in this case, the WordPress automated solution that we're using from WordPress scripts, it's going
to see this and know that it can find it within the global scope of WordPress.
Essentially, when the WordPress team created the WordPress JavaScript package that we're using, they
got creative with their Web pack configuration.
And so when it sees certain names, it knows to actually convert that into a reference that just looks
in the Web browsers global scope because it knows that WordPress can handle loading it.
They've also configured Web page to do this with react and react, Dom.
So even if you and I tried to say you don't need to type this, but even if we tried to say import react
from the react package like this, like you would normally do in JavaScript?
Well, the nice thing is that the WordPress automated JavaScript solution that we're using, it will
see this and it will know that it doesn't need to bundle up.
Another duplicate copy of REACT WordPress already loads a copy of React for US.
So there's no sense in bundling up our own copy and then forcing the visitors of our site to download
our copy and the copy that WordPress is already going to load.
So long story short, the WordPress scripts package that we're using, it will know what to do when
it sees this type of a package.
Naem WordPress components now within the curly brackets.
What do we want to import?
Well, there are all sorts of useful components here, but for right now, we're just interested in
text control.
OK, now with this in place, our code Downbelow should work.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
But remember, you need to in your command line, you need to have our start task running.
So again, that's NPM run start.
And that's going to convert RJ RSX into JavaScript that the browser can understand.
So now let's go test it out back in the browser, let's go under posts, let's start editing a post
loops and you can see we're running into an error here.
I know exactly what the problem is.
So, yes, the automated tool that we're using will know to look for this in the browsers global scope
instead of in NPM package.
But we need to make sure that it's going to exist in the global scope at all.
What I mean by that is we need to tell WordPress to load the appropriate JavaScript file.
So to do that in our HTTP, we just want to list a dependency for this JavaScript file.
Evars, let me show you what I mean.
So in our folder, jump into our index file.
OK, we're looking for the WP Register script line.
Remember, this is where we're loading our JavaScript file and then we have this array of dependencies.
So far we've listed WP blocks and WP element in order to make sure that WordPress is loading all of
its own JavaScript that we want it to.
Let's add another dependancy here.
So comma, string of text and it's WP Dash editor.
Let's give this to save and now if we refresh on the edit screen.
Cool, instead of the air message, we just see a text control element or component, so it looks like
a TextField, you can type into it, only it's got a little bit of styling applied to it and it automatically
knows to take up a good amount of horizontal space.
Now, you can contrast this with just a regular input field.
So right below that text control, we could just say input just for a quick test to see what a default
one looks like compared to this.
Give that save hit refresh.
Now, this particular example of just an input field might not look super impressive, but this is a
concept that we're going to practice again and again, not to show you another reason why it's nice
to use an existing component.
Let's try to give this field a label.
So back in our code on the text control component, we can just give it a prop. or a prop or an attribute
of label equals and then just give it a string of text.
Let's say question, Colin, and then we don't need the example, basic input here.
Let's give that to save the reload.
Cool, so the point is, we didn't need to create any extra HTML for this label element and we didn't
need to manually link it to the input, notice that if you click on the label, it automatically selects
the input.
So maybe you're starting to see the point of using someone else's component.
Whoever created this text control component, they've abstracted away a bit of the monotony of writing
out HTML and then we can just give it an elegant prop and value and everything is taken care of for
us.
OK, now before we move forward and add an area right below this called Answers, write something that'll
look something like this area.
Before we get to that, let's first add a little bit of styling around the block as a whole.
So I'm thinking just a bit of padding all around it, maybe a very subtle border, a little bit of a
background color, just so it sort of stands apart from the other blocks on the page.
So before we start writing any success, let's first give ourselves a class name that we can hook on
to on our overall wrap or div.
So on this opening div tag, remember in JSM, it's not class equals, it's class uppercase name equals.
We can make up any name we want, but let's say paying attention.
Edit block, let's give this a save and now start writing success.
This actually shows off another reason why I love the WordPress JavaScript package that we're using.
Check this out.
It requires zero configuration simply in our SIRC folder.
We're going to create a new file.
You can name it anything you want, but just to make it clear that it's associated with our index file,
I'm going to name it Index DOT and then instead of CSC, we can even use sasy access.
So DOT SPSS.
Let's jump into this new file and write a bit of code so dot to select a class, we named that wrapper
class paying attention.
Edit Gloc, let's give it 20 pixel of padding so you can just type 20 and hit tab.
Let's give it a slightly rounded corners.
So maybe border radius, two or three pixels.
Let's give it a very subtle border.
So border one pixel solid hash tag F1, f1, F1 and let's give it a subtle background color so you can
type Bjerk tab and then for the color let's say desex d6 desex.
OK, let's give that a save.
Now all we need to do is import this.
TXT file from within our JavaScript file and then the automated system.
It will extract it into its own file and place it in the build folder for us.
So check this out.
Let's jump into our JavaScript file up at the very, very top.
Just say import string of text dot slash to look in the current folder that the JavaScript files in
and then just index dot s success.
Let's give that a save.
And as long as your start task is running in your command line, notice we didn't need to do anything.
Now in our build folder, there's this new index success.
So with zero configuration on our part, we now have success getting converted into regular access that
we can load in the browser.
So now we just need to go into PHP and tell WordPress to load this CSFs file on the Post editor screen.
So back in index, remember, in our admin assets function, we already have this register script line
well right above it, still in that same function.
Let's call WP register style semicolon.
We're going to give it to arguments, but I'm realizing to save a good amount of typing, we can actually
just duplicate this line and make a few subtle changes.
So let me do that.
Let's get rid of register style and just duplicate this register script line.
Just select the entire line right above it.
Just paste it in.
OK, so let's change the function that we're calling to WP register style.
So the first argument is sort of a short name that we're making up for our txt file.
Let's just call it Cui's.
Edit success.
Feel free to make up a name here.
The second argument is just pointing towards our file.
So instead of build indexed JS, it would be dot CSX and then we no longer need this third argument.
The array of dependencies are CSFs doesn't have any dependencies.
You can just get rid of that like this.
OK, so now that we've registered this name, now we just tell our block type that we're registering
to use it.
So maybe right below this editor script line, you can add in line and say during a text editor underscore
style equals greater than the arrow and then just the name that you chose.
So I chose the name of Cui's edit siestas.
Be sure to end that with a comma and if we save and then refresh on our block edit screen.
Perfect, we've got the background color in the padding at this point, let's start adding the answers
area right about here.
So if we look at the finished product, it should look something like this.
So to do that, back in our JavaScript file, down in our just below the text control for now, let's
just have a P four paragraph that says Answers Colon.
And then right below this, let's have a row that has a TextField and then a star that you can click
on to market as the correct answer and then also a delete button.
Right.
So if we look at the finished product, the point is that there are three items.
Perreault So the question becomes, do we want to write our own success using Fleck's box or grid to
create this three column layout?
Or can we use WordPress components that will sort of take care of the work for us?
There's no wrong answer.
If you want to set up your own custom HTML and CSFs, you can, but I'm going to show you how to use
WordPress components.
So back in our copy, let's do this up at the very top of our file.
Let's import a few extra components from this line.
So as of right now, we're only importing text control.
But I want you to click right after control still in the curly brackets, say comma and import these
in with me flex, comma, flex block, comma, flex item, comma, button, comma and icon.
So now, without writing any success or coming up with class names, watch how far we can get just by
leveraging these existing components to back down in our JSA ex after the answers paragraph, let's
have a flex element so just flex it tab inside that I want to have one that is a flex block and then
after that I want to have two flex items of flex item.
I want two of those.
So flex item.
Again, the idea here is that flex block will take up as much space as it possibly can, whereas flex
items only take up the smallest amount of space that they need.
So this large area that will be the TextField.
So inside of Flex Block, let's have a self-closing text control element, OK?
And then inside the first flex item, this would be the block that you click on with the star to mark
it as the correct answer.
So let's drop down.
Let's have a button element or component inside the button component.
Let's have a self-closing icon tag.
We just give it a property of icon, equal string of text and then you can give it a dash icon type
of name.
So I'll just say star empty for the outline of a star.
OK, and then in the second flex item, let's have the delete button.
So dropdown will save button it tab for now inside the button.
Let's just have text that says delete.
Let's give this a save and see what it looks like.
So if we reload.
Cool, so it's not perfect, but we didn't write a single line of success and we already have a basic
three column layout that's going to bring this video to a close in the next video, we'll continue to
fine tune the styling so we can get it to look more like this.
Don't worry, we don't have too much styling work left to go.
And once we finish the styling, we'll start to write JavaScript to actually bring this to life.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you in the next video.